CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 121719Z MAR 25 MID120001785495U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 052/25

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N2N6/MAR//

SUBJ/NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/17JAN17//

NARR/REF A IS OPNAVINST 3870.6A, OBLIGATED SERVICE REQUIREMENTS FOR
INFORMATION WARFARE COMMUNITY ENLISTED PERSONNEL TO ATTEND THE NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE UNIVERSITY.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN solicits applications from active-duty enlisted
Information Warfare Community (IWC) personnel for enrollment in National
Intelligence University (NIU)'s full-time Bachelor of Science in
Intelligence (BSI), Master of Science of Strategic Intelligence (MSSI), and 
Master of Science and Technology Intelligence (MSTI) programs.  Non-IWC 
enlisted personnel who possess the requisite security clearance and meet 
NIU's eligibility requirements may request an exception via their detailers 
and the NIU Navy Service Chair (NIU POC information is below).

2.  As the US Intelligence Community's (IC) accredited, degree-granting 
university, NIU holds a unique position as the cornerstone of education, 
research, and innovation for developing and enriching the intelligence 
profession.  NIU students are immersed in a classified learning environment 
that fosters the development of real-world solutions to national security 
challenges at the Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) 
arena.

3.  Selectees will be assigned to NIU as full-time students through permanent 
change of station orders to Bethesda, MD, and will commence academic studies 
in August.  As full-time students, Sailors will be required to carry a full 
academic schedule year-round.  Degree requirements should be completed in 12 
months.

4.  Each degree program has specific eligibility requirements as described on 
the NIU website at https://www.ni-u.edu/eligibility/.  Competitive BSI 
applicants must have a cumulative undergraduate-level GPA of 2.5 or higher on 
a 4.0 scale.  Competitive MSSI/MSTI applicants must have a cumulative 
undergraduate or graduate-level GPA of 3.0 or higher on a 4.0 scale.  All 
applicants must hold or be eligible for a Top Secret/Sensitive Compartmented
Information (TS/SCI) clearance.  Orders to NIU will not be issued until
TS/SCI clearance is fully adjudicated.

5.  Per reference (a), enlisted applicants for the MSSI or MSTI programs must 
obligate 60 months of service, per reference (a).  Applicants for the BSI 
program must obligate 54 months of service.  Obligated service reflects the 
total time while in the education program and post-education.  Selectees will 
be required to reenlist more than one year early prior to enrollment if they 
are unable to satisfy the obligated service requirement.  An extension will 
become binding upon enrollment at NIU.

6.  Potential full-time applicants must be active duty and shore tour 
eligible, in line with Sea-Shore Flow.  Exceptions to prescribed Sea-Shore 
Flow will be reviewed by their detailers on a case-by-case basis.  Sailors 
should begin application process by contacting their command career 
counselors.  If the NIU class start time requires the applicant to depart 
their current command early, they must request command concurrence before 
continuing the application process.  Next, applicants must contact their 
detailers to discuss the implications for their current assignments and 
careers.  Detailer release is required for this program.  Failure to gain 
release may result in withdrawal of selection.  Applicants should receive 
detailer release no later than 31 October 2025.  Upon release, the applicant 
will notify the NIU Navy Service Chair (see POC information below).  The 
applicant will then submit their application via the instructions on the NIU 
website at https://ni-u.edu/admissions/.
Finally, the NIU Navy Service Chair will submit a Service Nomination Memo to 
NIU Admissions on behalf of all full-time Navy applicants.  Full application 
packages are due to NIU admissions no later than 31 January 2026.

7.  Upon selection, member must request (via command career counselor) an  
in-rate quota in the Career Waypoints (C-WAY) System.  Those members not in 
their C-WAY window should submit a "special circumstance" application 
indicating reason code of "other", and the career counselor will be prompted 
to add a note indicating selection to the NIU program.  If selected via
"special circumstance" application, this program does not guarantee awarding 
of an in-rate C-WAY quota and is not considered part of an individual's 
performance indicator in the C-WAY process.

8.  Final selection results will be disseminated by NIU via e-mail to 
selectees.  Selectees will be issued Permanent Change of Station (PCS) orders 
to arrive at NIU no later than one week prior to the beginning of NIU student 
in-processing in August 2026.

9.  Reservists are not eligible for NIU's full-time program but are eligible 
for NIU's part-time programs.  Additional details can be found at 
https://www.ni-u.edu/academics/.  Note that service nominations are not 
required for NIU's part-time programs.

10.  General information about NIU can be found at https://www.ni-u.edu/.

11.  The NIU POC is CDR Jay McVann, NIU Navy Service Chair, at
jay.p.mcvann(at)odni.gov.

12.  This message will remain in effect until superseded.

13.  Released by VADM Karl O. Thomas, Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for
Information Warfare, OPNAV N2N6.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

