CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 181900Z FEB 25 MID120001748187U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 029/25

MSGID/NAVADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/DNS/FEB//

SUBJ/MRS. SYBIL STOCKDALE OMBUDSMAN OF THE YEAR AWARD//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAVINST 1750.1H/11DEC2023//

AMPN/REF A is The Navy Family Ombudsman Program// POC/Wright, Judith CIV/CNIC 
N9/JUDITH.R.WRIGHT.NAF(AT)US.NAVY.MIL/TEL: (202) 718 -8477//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the annual Mrs. Sybil Stockdale Ombudsman of 
the Year Award nomination/selection process and presentation requirements for 
Calendar Year 2025. Navy Ombudsman who have served in good standing for at 
least one year culminating no later than the due date in paragraph 6.a are 
eligible to be nominated for the 2025 award.

2.  This award was inspired by Mrs. Sybil Stockdale, who set an unflagging 
example for her support for families of other prisoners of war during the 
seven-year internment in Southeast Asia of her husband, Vice Admiral James 
Bond Stockdale.  The Ombudsman of the Year Award is presented to four 
ombudsmen who have served their command and Navy families with selfless 
dedication and commitment to family readiness in the following categories:
    a.  Afloat Command (Commander, U.S. Fleet Forces Command 
(COMUSFLTFORCOM)).
    b.  Afloat Command (Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet Command (COMPACFLT)).
    c.  Reserve Command (Commander, Navy Reserve Force (COMNAVRESFOR)).
    d.  Ashore Command. The following commands are authorized to submit one 
nomination to Director, Navy Staff (per paragraph 6.a) to compete from their 
ashore commands.
(1) Each Echelon 2 Navy Shore Activity (direct report to OPNAV)
          (2) COMUSFLTFORCOM
          (3) COMPACFLT
          (4) U.S. Naval Forces Europe/U.S. Naval Forces Africa

3.  Criteria for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Must have demonstrated the ability to effectively communicate between 
the Navy family and the command.
    b.  Must have maintained the highest standards of professionalism and 
confidentiality while providing a positive example for command members and 
families.
    c.  Must have facilitated and promoted a healthy sense of community among 
command families by assisting and supporting Navy families to include 
emergencies, mobilization, or deployment.
    d.  Must have demonstrated consistent compliance with training, data 
collection, and required reports per reference (a).

4.  Eligibility requirements for Ombudsman of the Year:
    a.  Award nominees must be registered in the Ombudsman Registry, 
https://ombudsmanregistry.cnic.navy.mil/, and have distinguished themselves 
in supporting Navy families.
    b.  Must have served as an Ombudsman in good standing for at least one 
year and embody the core values of the Ombudsman Program.

5.  Submit nomination packages in the following format
    a.  Cover letter to category sponsors via the chain of command, with the 
following enclosures.
    b.  Enclosure (1)  Summary of action, not to exceed two pages, addressing 
each of the criterion set forth in paragraph 3 (above).
    c.  Enclosure (2)  Short biography of the nominee.
    d.  Enclosure (3)  Letter from the Fleet and Family Support Center 
Director or Navy Reserve Center (NRC) validating involvement in Ombudsman 
assemblies and advanced training.
    e.  Enclosure (4), as needed:  Additional supporting information (e.g., a 
letter of support for nomination from former Commanding Officers, Command 
Point of Contact, or Command Support Team; letters of appreciation presented 
by Commanding Officers or family members).

6.  Nomination and selection process.
    a.  Packages are due no later than 9 May 2025.  Submit Afloat and Reserve 
Command nomination packages to the appropriate organizations in paragraphs 
2a, b and c (above). Ombudsman of the Year representatives from Echelon 2 
Navy Shore Activities (direct report to OPNAV), COMUSFLTFORCOM, COMPACFLT and 
CNE-CNA Ashore submit nomination packages to Director, Navy Staff, CMDCM 
Jason Haka at jason.m.haka.mil(AT)us.navy.mil and Commander, Navy 
Installations Command, FORCM Andre Brown at andre.d.brown.mil(AT)us.navy.mil
    b.  COMUSFLTFORCOM and COMPACFLT will select a shore finalist and provide 
nominees information to Director, Navy Staff to compete for Ombudsman of the 
Year (Ashore) no later than 13 June 2025.
    c.  COMUSFLTFORCOM, COMPACFLT and COMNAVRESFOR will select an awardee for 
their respective category and provide their information to Director, Navy 
Staff no later than 20 June 2025 for inclusion in a NAVADMIN announcing all 
four winners.

7.  TYCOMs or designated representative will present awards in September 
2025, during an Ombudsman Appreciation event.

8.  Additional information is located at https://ffr.cnic.navy.mil/Family-
Readiness/Fleet-And-Family-Support-Program/Work-and-Family-Life/Ombudsman-
Program/Mrs-Sybil-Stockdale-Ombudsman-of-the-Year-Award/.

9.  Released by VADM Michael E. Boyle, Director, Navy Staff.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

