CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
ROUTINE
R 071916Z FEB 25 MID180001598330U
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC
TO NAVADMIN
BT
UNCLAS
 
NAVADMIN 023/25

MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/FEB//

SUBJ/ORDER TO UPDATE NAVY FAMILY ACCOUNTABILITY AND ASSESSMENT SYSTEM 
PERSONAL CONTACT INFORMATION (MARCH 2025)//

REF/A/DOC/OPNAV/23OCT14//

AMPN/REF A is OPNAVINST 3006.1 CH-2, PERSONNEL ACCOUNTABILITY IN CONJUNCTION 
WITH CATASTROPHIC EVENTS.//

RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces the semi-annual requirement for all Navy 
uniformed and civilian personnel to update/verify their personal information 
in the Navy Family Accountability and Assessment System (NFAAS), per 
reference (a), no later than 31 March 2025.  If a record has been updated in 
the system between 1 October 2024 and 31 March 2025, that record is 
considered validated for the 31 March 2025 deadline.
    a.  NFAAS is the system utilized by the Navy to account for personnel and 
their families during widespread natural or man-made disasters.
    b.  Accurate contact information of personnel and family members is 
required to facilitate a quick and accurate muster of personnel in affected 
areas.

2.  Applicability.  This message applies to all Navy uniformed personnel 
(Active Duty and Reserve), Navy civilians (both APF and NAF), and Outside 
Continental United States (OCONUS) contractors.
    a.  It is mandatory for all uniformed personnel, and all categories of 
their dependents to update and verify contact information.
    b.  It is mandatory for non-bargaining unit civilian employees to update 
their contact information.  Providing dependent's information is voluntary 
but highly encouraged.  Failure to provide dependent information may impinge 
on receipt of potential benefits, if applicable.
    c.  It is mandatory for all OCONUS contractors, and all categories of 
their dependents to update and verify contact information.
    d.  Bargaining unit civilian employees are highly encouraged to provide 
their contact and dependent information on a voluntary basis, until union 
notification and subsequent impact and implementation bargaining takes place 
(when applicable).  Providing contact information is critical in providing 
support to DON civilians and their dependents during a disaster and the 
subsequent recovery period.

3.  Echelon 2 commanders, region commanders, and region personnel 
accountability representatives will ensure widest dissemination of this 
notice to all subordinate commands, tenant commands and detachments for 
action, as required.  All commanding officers (CO)/officers-in-charge (OIC) 
will ensure 100 percent compliance for mandatory personnel.  COs/OICs shall 
contact pertinent human resources offices to request notification of 
applicable unions and OCONUS contractors (must provide associated unit 
identification code (UIC)).

4.  In addition, each command shall institute policies requiring personnel to 
review/update their NFAAS data as standard practice during check-in and check 
-out.  A tool is available in NFAAS to allow commanding officer 
representatives (COR) to "pull" personnel into their UIC.  In the event of 
permanent address or contact information changes:
    a.  Uniformed personnel, OCONUS contractors, and/or their dependents are 
required to update NFAAS.
    b.  Civilian non-bargaining unit employees are required to update NFAAS, 
and their dependents are highly encouraged to update NFAAS.
    c.  Civilian bargaining unit employees and their dependents are highly 
encouraged to update NFAAS.

5.  To update contact information, access the NFAAS website at 
https://navyfamily.navy.mil/cas/login?service.  Login and update member 
information under the "My Info" tab, "Contact Information" section, and 
sponsor's work location information.  Update family member information under 
the "My Info" tab, "Family Member Info" section.  Edit member and family 
member information as necessary and verify as current.  Personnel are 
required to input their physical address; PO/APO/FPO addresses are not 
authorized.  Additionally, users must ensure a cell carrier is selected from 
the applicable drop-down list.  All family members enrolled in the 
Exceptional Family Member program must be identified as such.

6.  CORs can verify personnel update status using the "reports" tab in NFAAS 
and selecting "Address Information Update Status Roster Report by UIC."
Column K contains the date contact information was last updated.

7.  Points of contact:
    a.  NFAAS Help Desk at paas(at)navy.mil or nfaas.cnic.fct@navy.mil
    b.  NFAAS Assistant Program Manager, FC1(SW/AW) Audetat, Ethan at (202) 
433-9833 or via e-mail at ethan.t.audetat.mil@us.navy.mil

8.  This NAVADMIN will remain in effect until superseded or canceled.

9.  Released by Vice Admiral C. S. GRAY, Commander, Navy Installations 
Command.//

BT
#0001
NNNN
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//

