CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED// 
ROUTINE 
R 192205Z DEC 24 MID120001653834U 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC 
TO NAVADMIN 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC 
BT 
UNCLAS 
 
NAVADMIN 255/24 
 
PASS TO OFFICE CODES: 
FM CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
INFO CNO WASHINGTON DC//N1// 
MSGID/GENADMIN/CNO WASHINGTON DC/N1/DEC// 
 
SUBJ/BILLET BASED ADVANCEMENTS 2025 
 
REF/A/DOC/BUPERS/07FEB22// 
REF/B/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/272200ZJUL23// 
RED/C/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/121529ZMAR24// 
REF/D/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/091538ZDEC21// 
REF/E/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011634ZJUN22// 
REF/F/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/062115ZOCT22// 
REF/G/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/101743ZMAY23// 
REF/H/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/011532ZFEB24// 
REF/I/MSG CNO WASHINGTON DC/221631ZNOV22// 
REF/J/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/081754ZDEC23// 
REF/K/MSG/CNO WASHINGTON DC/031326ZJUN24// 
REF/L/DOC/BUPERS/29SEP17// 
REF/M/DOC/BUPERS/22FEB20// 
REF/N/DOC/MEMO/25OCT21// 
 
NARR/REF A IS BUPERSINST 1430.16G CH-1, ADVANCEMENT MANUAL FOR ENLISTED 
PERSONNEL OF THE U.S. NAVY AND U.S. NAVY RESERVE. 
REF B IS NAVADMIN 168/23, NAVY-WIDE APPRENTICE (E1-E4) ADVANCEMENT CHANGES.   
REF C IS NAVADMIN 052/24, 2024 MERITORIOUS ADVANCEMENT SEASON ONE.   
REF D IS NAVADMIN 280/21, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY (DMAP).   
REF E IS NAVADMIN 127/22, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY PHASE I 
UPDATE.   
REF F IS NAVADMIN 228/22, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY PHASE II. 
REF G IS NAVADMIN 109/23, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY PHASE III.   
REF H IS NAVADMIN 017/24, DETAILING MARKETPLACE ASSIGNMENT POLICY PHASE IV - 
DC AND ABE EXCLUSIVE.   
REF I IS NAVADMIN 261/22, SENIOR ENLISTED MARKETPLACE - E-9 BILLET BASED 
ADVANCEMENT.   
REF J IS NAVADMIN 305/23, FY25 ACTIVE COMPONENT ADVANCEMENT AND SCREEN BOARDS 
FOR COMMAND MASTER CHIEF, MASTER CHIEF AND SENIOR CHIEF PETTY OFFICER.   
REF K IS NAVADMIN 111/24, IMPLEMENTATION OF COMMAND ADVANCE TO POSITION.   
REF L IS MILPERSMAN 1306-300, OVERSEAS TOUR EXTENSION INCENTIVES PROGRAM 
(OTEIP).   
REF M IS MILPERSMAN 1050-410, CONSECUTIVE OVERSEAS TOUR (COT) AND IN-PLACE 
CONSECUTIVE OVERSEAS TOUR (IPCOT) LEAVE ENTITLEMENT POLICY.   
REF N IS POLICY DECISION MEMORANDUM 002-21, SEA DUTY INCENTIVE PAY PROGRAM.// 
 
RMKS/1.  This NAVADMIN announces an update on Billet Based 
Advancement (BBA) policies contained in references (a) through (k), 
and the expansion of BBA in calendar year 2025.  BBA is the 
framework that serves to link enlisted advancements directly to 
billets, enables Active Duty Sailors to advance to the next-higher 
paygrade via Command Advance to Position (CA2P) and Advance to 
Position (A2P), and includes the Senior Enlisted Marketplace (SEM). 
BBA expands Active Duty Sailor choice, reduces the number of E-5 and 
above vacancies across the Fleet and reduces assignment distribution 
inefficiencies.  Most BBA actions are initiated and adjudicated in 
MyNavy Assignment (MNA), providing process transparency to the 
Fleet. 
 
2.  Starting with the March 2025 Navy-Wide Advancement Examination 
cycle, ratings included in the Detailing Marketplace Assignment 
Policy (DMAP) will be fully integrated into BBA.  These sea- 
intensive ratings, ABE, ABF, ABH, AME, AO, CS, DC, EM, IC, GM, GSM, 
MM, QM, and RS, will no longer follow the "DMAP 4+3" construct for a 
follow-on journeyman (E-5) sea tour, in line with reference (d). 
The Navy-wide Advancement Exams (NWAEs) for advancement to E-5 and 
E-6 for the BBA ratings will transition to Rating Knowledge Exams 
(RKEs) to attain CA2P and A2P eligibility.  E-4 and E-5 Sailors are 
required to have an in-grade periodic evaluation to participate in 
the RKE.  Active Duty Sailors who pass the RKE and have a Commanding 
Officer/Officer in Charge's recommendation for advancement will have 
a Detailing Marketplace Eligibility Indicator (DMEI) applied to 
their MNA record, which will allow Sailors to apply for jobs in the 
next-higher paygrade, regardless of Projected Rotation Date (PRD). 
Previous BBA Sailors (ABE and DC) that are advancement eligible on 
sea or shore duty may begin to apply for A2P jobs in the next MNA 
cycle.  Active Duty BBA Sailors passing the March 2025 RKE may begin 
to apply for A2P jobs in the August 2025 MNA cycle.  Passing the RKE 
will enable DMEI eligibility for 24 months.  If a Sailor has not 
advanced in a new position within 24 months, they must retake the 
RKE to ensure technical competency is maintained. 
    a.  RKEs will be consistent with NWAEs as to the type and scope 
of questions and will be conducted using the same exam processes and 
timeline.  E-5 and E-6 exam administration cycles will continue to 
be in March and September.  Active Duty Sailors may retake the RKE 
each cycle to try and improve their Final Multiple Score (FMS), 
which is a scoring element in the Sailor Scoring Criteria (SSC). 
The FMS is based on the RKE score, performance evaluations, awards, 
education, service-in-paygrade, and pass not advanced points. Time 
in rate (TIR) is not required for Active Duty Sailors in the above 
listed ratings taking the E-5 and E-6 RKE.  Education Service 
Officers (ESO) must create Enlisted Advancement Worksheets (EAW) and 
submit exam orders for these Sailors.  To support Cycle 267 exam 
ordering timelines, ESOs must add exam orders for any BBA rating 
Active Duty Sailors missing from the Cycle 267 mass/initial TIR exam 
orders.  As with NWAEs, Professional Military Knowledge - 
Eligibility Exams and Enlisted Leader Development courses are 
eligibility requirements to take RKEs as well as specific rating 
requirements. 
    b.  BBA Component Exemptions.  The BBA program is not available 
for Sailors in the Training and the Administration of Reserve (TAR) 
or Selected Reserve (SELRES). 
    c.  BBA options for the journeyman pay band (E-5 and E-6) 
include A2P and CA2P with the following eligibility and processes. 
Current command must validate all advancement criteria is met prior 
to executing advancement. 
        (1) A2P opportunities are advertised in MNA and eligible 
Active Duty Sailors in BBA ratings may submit up to seven 
applications per cycle; these may include jobs in their current or 
next-higher paygrade.  Once all applications are received, MNA will 
score each application and Rating Detailers will review the slate. 
If the Sailor with the highest SSC does not meet the pre-requisite 
skillsets of the billet requirements, the Sailor with the next- 
highest score will be evaluated for A2P selection.  This review will 
continue until a qualified Sailor is selected to fill the position. 
BBA Sailors selected for A2P must obligate service for 36 months, 
pass any applicable screening requirements and complete required 
billet training enroute. 
        (2) CA2P provides an opportunity for Commanding Officers and 
Officers in Charge to recommend an advancement eligible BBA Sailor 
that has completed at least 24 months of cumulative sea time as an 
E-4, or 18 months of tour completion as an E-5, to remain onboard 
for advancement. 
             (a) CA2P is available for all E-4 and E-5 BBA Sailors 
that are not within 12 months of their PRD, under orders or have 
orders pending release.  BBA Sailors must be serving onboard a sea 
duty activity (Type 2, 3 or 4) or a pre-commissioning activity that 
has a current or projected billet vacancy in the next-higher 
paygrade.  Shore CA2P will be considered for advancement eligible 
Sailors that are assigned to a command with a valid, unencumbered 
billet which is both aligned to that Sailors' rating and/or Navy 
Enlisted Classification and in the next higher paygrade.  Sailors 
approved for CA2P on shore duty are required to obligate service for 
36-months beyond their advancement date.  Their PRD will not be 
extended.  General duty billets at Recruit Training Command and on 
Recruiter Duty must meet the vacant paygrade for a CA2P, but 
requests will not be restricted to the source rating requirement. 
CA2P requests will be submitted in MNA via a Member Realignment 
Request. 
              (b) Immediate Superiors in Command (ISIC), Type 
Commanders (TYCOM) and Budget Submitting Offices may also submit 
CA2P requests to move eligible BBA Sailors to another activity that 
has a job available in the next higher paygrade.  These requests 
should be within the same geographic location.  Requests will be 
submitted in MNA via a Cross-deck or Comp-tour Personnel Manning 
Action Request (PMAR).  Sailors moved from one shore duty activity 
to another shore activity retain their original PRD and will not 
have their shore tour extended. 
              (c) CA2P requests may only be submitted in MNA scrub 
phase and any request received at any other time will be held until 
the next MNA Scrub Phase.  The MNA schedule is available at: 
https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-Management/Detailing/MyNavy-Assignment/. 
        (3) BBA Sailors may be frocked once Obligated Service 
(OBLISERVE) is achieved to meet the new assignment PRD and one of 
the below elements occurs: 
              (a) Hardcopy orders for the A2P are received. 
              (b) Manning Realignment Request is approved in MNA for CA2P. 
 
3.  SEM offers board screened Active Duty E-7 and E-8 Sailors the 
opportunity to apply and be selected for an E-8 and E-9 job in the 
next-higher paygrade.  SEM will be expanded to board screened E-6 
Sailors selected for E-7 to apply and be selected for an E-7 job, 
which will begin with the fiscal year 2026 CPO Board.  E-7 
advancement cycle policies for EAW, exam ordering, NWAE 
administration, and selection board eligibility determination remain 
unchanged.  E-7 SEM will be executed the same as E-8 and E-9, with 
the exception of the timeline for frocking.  E-7 Screened Sailors 
will go through Chief Petty Officer initiation and frocked upon 
completion of the six-week training and Capstone event.  If 
eligible, Screened Sailors may remain eligible for Sea Duty 
Incentive Pay (SDIP). 
    a.  SEM Exemptions.  SEM does not apply to Command Senior 
Enlisted Leader Program, Submarine, Nuclear, Musician (E-7 only), 
Seal, Special Boat Operator, TAR and SELRES ratings. 
    b.  SEM screening boards will operate in the same manner as 
legacy selection boards, with the exception that each will provide a 
list of Sailors screened as eligible to advance, with up to the top 
15% of screened E-7s and E-8s designated as merit screened.  There 
will be no merit screenings for E-6 Sailors successfully screened 
for E-7.  Screened Sailors will have a DMEI applied to their MNA 
record, which will allow them to apply for jobs in the next-higher 
paygrade, regardless of PRD, Accounting Code (ACC) or order status. 
Sailors have up to 24 months to be selected for a job in the next- 
higher paygrade and if they are not selected, they must be 
reevaluated by the next screening board.  Sailors who have lost 
promotion recommendation must be reviewed by the next screening 
board. 
    c.  SEM advancement opportunities are advertised in MNA. 
Sailors may submit up to seven applications per cycle; these may 
include jobs in their current or next-higher paygrade.  Once all 
applications are received, MNA will score each application and 
Rating Detailers will review the candidates.  If the Sailor with the 
highest SSC does not meet the pre-requisite skillsets of the billet 
requirements, the Sailor with the next-highest score will be 
evaluated for selection.  This review will continue until a 
qualified Sailor is selected to fill the position.  Sailors selected 
for advancement must obligate service for 36 months, pass any 
applicable screening requirements and complete required billet 
training enroute. 
    d.  Sailors selected for a SEM opportunity in the next-higher 
paygrade will normally complete a minimum of 12-months on board 
their current activity.  If the losing activity needs to hold a 
Sailor longer to support operational commitments, they may submit an 
Operational Hold (OPHOLD) request for sea duty activities or an 
Order Modification (ORDMOD) request for shore duty activities. 
Approved OPHOLD or ORDMOD requests will delay the Sailors frocking 
and advancement date. 
    e.  SEM screened Sailors that are within the normal 12-month 
order negotiation window may apply for jobs within their current or 
next-higher paygrade.  Sailors that are not selected for a job in 
the next-higher paygrade may be selected for a job within their 
current paygrade, but they remain eligible to apply for jobs in the 
next-higher paygrade, regardless of PRD, ACC or order status. 
Sailors have up to 24-months to be selected for a job in the next- 
higher paygrade and if not, they must be reevaluated by the next 
screening board. 
    f.  E-8/E-9 Sailors may be frocked once OBLISERVE is achieved to 
meet the new assignment PRD and hardcopy orders for the advancement 
are received.  E-8/E-9 Sailors that were previously directed 
frocking 30 days before orders execution may be frocked once 
OBLISERVE is achieved to meet the new assignment PRD and hardcopy 
orders are for the advancement are received. 
 
4.  BBA Assignment Limitations.  Sailors with assignment limitations 
or considerations will have the ability to apply for BBA (A2P, CA2P, 
and SEM) opportunities.  The following guidelines enhance MNA 
behavior to increase Sailor choice and support overall operational 
readiness.  These guidelines are in addition to, and not overriding, 
overarching policy for each category. 
    a.  Military Couple Colocation.  If both Sailors in a military 
couple are advancement eligible and participating in the same MNA 
cycle, the first Sailor that is selected for a job in the next- 
higher paygrade becomes the lead Sailor in the assignment process. 
The PRD for the spouse will be adjusted to match the lead Sailor's 
anticipated transfer month, which will give the Sailor an 
opportunity to continue to apply for an advancement that matches the 
spouse's new duty location.  If the non-lead spouse is not selected 
for an advancement opportunity, rating detailers will select the 
Sailor for a job within the current paygrade in the lead spouse's 
new duty location.  If eligible, the spouse may continue to apply 
for an advancement opportunity.  Sea and shore rotation will be 
considered in the assignment process for both spouses. 
    b.  Assignments for less than 12 months.  Advancement-eligible 
Sailors on a tour of less than 12 months may apply for a job in 
their current or next-higher paygrade.  If they are not selected for 
an advancement opportunity, they may be selected for an in-paygrade 
job.  If the Sailor is unable to fill the billet within three months 
of the orders' report date, orders will be canceled, and the Rating 
Detailer will evaluate the circumstance.  Advancement eligible 
Sailors may continue to apply for advancement opportunities in MNA, 
regardless of their PRD, personnel ACC, or order status. 
    c.  Operational limiting assignments for greater than 12 months. 
Advancement-eligible Sailors may apply for a job in their current or 
next-higher paygrade that they are eligible to fill at any time.  If 
they are not selected for an advancement opportunity, they may be 
selected for an in-paygrade job.  Sailors should be making 
applications in MNA beginning no later than 12 months prior to their 
PRD.  If the Sailor is unable to fill the billet within three months 
of the orders' report date, orders will be canceled, and the Rating 
Detailer will evaluate the circumstance.  Advancement eligible 
Sailors may continue to apply for advancement opportunities in MNA, 
regardless of their PRD, personnel ACC, or order status. 
    d.  Exceptional Family Member (EFM).  Sailors that are assigned 
as EFM will apply for orders for advancement within MNA.  Sailors 
should consider their family care needs when applying.  Orders for 
Sailor's enrolled in EFM will be routed through PERS-456 for review 
to ensure that care is available in the new duty location.  If care 
is not available, Sailors will need wait to reapply for an 
advancement opportunity in the next MNA cycle.  Sailors within their 
normal order negotiation window may be selected for in-paygrade jobs 
that will satisfy their EFM needs and they may continue to apply for 
advancement billets in MNA cycles until selected for an advancement 
assignment. 
    e.  Decommissioning Units.  Advancement eligible Sailors that 
are assigned to a decommissioning unit that are eligible for 
advancement may continue to apply for advancement opportunities via 
MNA.  TYCOM and ISIC may submit CA2P requests in MNA via a Crossdeck 
PMAR to activities within their area of responsibility. 
    f.  Tour Extension Programs.  Overseas Tour Extension Incentive 
Program, Consecutive Overseas Tour, and SDIP are applicable 
incentive programs in line with references (l) through (n).  CA2P 
advancements will incur a 36-month tour extension and allow one-time 
use of benefits in accordance with selected option. 
    g.  Legal Hold.  Sailors selected for A2P, CA2P or SEM who are 
on legal hold, and not authorized to transfer within three months of 
their estimated date of departure will have their orders cancelled. 
Sailors will be able to renegotiate for an advancement opportunity 
once the legal issue is resolved. 
 
5.  SSC Updates.  SSC for both journey man and supervisors will be 
evaluated annually and updates will be published in July each year. 
SSC information is posted on the Detailing Marketplace website: 
(https://www.mynavyhr.navy.mil/Career-
Management/Detailing/Enlisted/Detailing-Marketplace/) 
 
6.  Exception to Policy (ETP).  ETP requests will be submitted on 
command letterhead, and requests must be signed by the requesting 
Commanding Officer or Officer in Charge.  Each request will include 
the unit identification code and billet sequence code requesting 
consideration along with the reason why the special consideration is 
requested.  Both the Sailor and the Commanding Officer or Officer in 
Charge must agree on the ETP request.  If approved, Sailors must 
obligate service for 36 months.  Sailors will have their PRDs 
adjusted to meet tour requirements.  All SEM ETP requests must 
include a Flag endorsement. 
 
7.  For general questions on BBA contact bba.fct@navy.mil.  For 
general career information, please contact the MyNavy Career Center 
at 833-330-MNCC (6622) or askmncc@navy.mil.  For questions or 
clarification on the SEM, contact srenlistedmarket.fct@navy.mil. 
 
8.  This message will remain in effect until superseded or canceled. 
 
9.  Released by Vice Admiral Richard J. Cheeseman, Jr., N1.// 
 
BT 
#0001 
NNNN 
CLASSIFICATION: UNCLASSIFIED//
